let's consider a more realistic example
of what happens when an exception is not
caught so here in homework 1 this is
inspired by homework 1 we have a class
called guitar hero light it is a method
called main
it calls guitar string example in some
other class and that in turn calls a ray
ring buffer dot peak ok so let's imagine
that something goes wrong in peak and a
runtime exception gets thrown well what
the Java interpreter will do is it'll
say is somebody in peak going to catch
or it will the peak method catch the
exception let's say it does not catch it
well in that case the exception began
descending what's known as the call
stack it's the stack of methods that get
called so now we basically pop this off
of the stack we can mentally imagine
that we're moving down the stack of
methods so we then look for a catch in
the sample method now let's say sample
also does not catch it so this exception
will now move up to the main method now
at this point if we caught the exception
we could print out a message that said
something like something went wrong when
calling guitar string dot sample but if
we don't catch it in this case the
program will crash and then the Java
interpreter will do the best thing it
can imagine which is print out here with
known as a stack trace yeah so basically
if the exception gets to the bottom of
the call stack the program crashes and
we get a message here and ideally
because this message is kind of jargony
I mean imagine you know someone on their
cell phone using an Android app that
crashes but just prints out this message
they're gonna have no idea what it means
they're not a programmer probably so
ideally the person who actually sees
this call trait the stack trace is
actually a programmer but maybe not and
so in this case the stack trace
basically says Guitar Hero like Java
online 110 ran into trouble when it was
calling a guitar string sample and on
line 48 of this method we then called a
ray ring buffer dot peek oh and it's
actually on line 63 of a raymond ring
buffer that things went wrong and so
this stack Trace is hopefully helpful
for somebody